The University of Southern California will host a “DataViz Hackathon
for Polar CyberInfrastructure” sponsored by the U.S. National Science
Foundation, and Amazon Web Services, in coordination with Parsons The
New School for Design who will provide a venue for the workshop in
New York City on November 3-4, 2014.

The workshop format will be a “hackathon”, and it will be focused
on bridging of the cyberinfrastructure/data visualization and polar
communities. Improving the use and the value of existing data sets
over the polar regions is crucial to promote science and support
new discoveries. Ultimately, collaborations between data visualization
experts and polar scientists will foster the understanding of the
variability of the polar regions at different timescales, with
implicit benefit for the society. The participants will be motivated
by several public Polar datasets that will be acquired and made
available before the starting date of the workshop. One of the
expected outcomes is to produce high impact and novel prototypes
and data visualizations that will be made available under open
source licenses.

Releasing the prototypes will allow the NSF to make longer-term
investments in technologies and visualizations that can be adopted
by the community. The workshop will also increase cross agency
collaboration between NSF, NASA, NOAA and other Arctic/Polar related
agencies. The organizing committee is composed by both cyberinfrastructure
and polar experts, including participation from academia, industry,
the federally funded research and development centers, and from the
broader open source community.

The workshop will: (1) recommend several sets of open source software
for data and metadata processing; scientific workflow management;
data curation; and data dissemination; (2) identify some relevant
Polar data visualization techniques and assess the needs and
challenges of visualizing Polar datasets; (3) package, deliver, and
make available the outcomes of the workshop via a public website;
and (4) provide input to the NSF Polar CyberInfrastructure program
officer through a final report.

More information about the workshop is available via the hackathon
website:

http://nsf-polar-cyberinfrastructure.github.io/datavis-hackathon/

and also by contacting the PI, Dr. Chris A. Mattmann <mattmann@usc.edu>,
or by Parsons contacts Ms. Katie Wanner <wannk858@newschool.edu> or Mr.
Jihoon Kang <kangj01@newschool.edu> (Associate Director, Parsons Institute
for Information Mapping).
