Subject: Call for Participation: NSF DataViz Hackathon for Polar
CyberInfrastructure: NYC, November 3-4, 2014

The U.S. National Science Foundation is sponsoring a workshop related
to data visualization in the Polar Sciences. The Workshop will focus
on the bridging of the cyberinfrastructure/data visualization and
polar communities and it is scheduled to be held in New York City
at the Parsons New School for Design November 3-4, 2014.

Improving the use and the value of existing data sets over the polar
regions is crucial to promote science and support new discoveries.
Ultimately, collaborations between data visualization experts and
polar scientists will foster the understanding of the variability
of the polar regions at different timescales, with implicit benefit
for the society.

The participants will be motivated by several public Polar datasets
that will be acquired and made available before the starting date
of the workshop. One of the expected outcomes is to produce high
impact and novel prototypes and data visualizations that will be
made available under open source licenses. Releasing the prototypes
will allow the NSF to make longer-term investments in technologies
and visualizations that can be adopted by the community. The workshop
will also increase cross agency collaboration between NSF, NASA,
NOAA and other Arctic/Polar related agencies. The organizing committee
is composed by both cyberinfrastructure and polar experts, including
participation from academia, industry, the federally funded research
and development centers, and from the broader open source community.
The workshop will: (1) recommend several sets of open source software
for data and metadata processing; scientific workflow management;
data curation; and data dissemination; (2) identify some relevant
Polar data visualization techniques and assess the needs and
challenges of visualizing Polar datasets; (3) package, deliver, and
make available the outcomes of the workshop via a public website;
and (4) provide input to the NSF Polar CyberInfrastructure program
officer through a final report.
