Dear Interested Participant,

You have been selected to attend the NSF DataViz Hackathon for Polar
CyberInfrastructure after expressing interest in the event.

Congratulations and thank you for your interest!

We are in the process of putting up a website right now, via Github.
You can find the website here:

http://nsf-polar-cyberinfrastructure.github.io/datavis-hackathon/

The Github Source for the website is here:

https://github.com/NSF-Polar-Cyberinfrastructure/datavis-hackathon/

In the coming week you will see more and more information pop up
on that website, for now please find the following logistical
information:

1. The workshop will take place in New York City, New York on Monday
November 3, 2014 and Tuesday November 4, 2014.

2. The workshop will take an "unconference"² and "hackathon" style
to it, much like the recent Open Science Codefest (also sponsored
by NSF). See here: http://nceas.github.io/open-science-codefest/

In this vein, we are asking participants to help create "sessions"
as Github issues (please register for Github as we will be tracking
all of our conference information there). Each issue that you create
here: https://github.com/NSF-Polar-Cyberinfrastructure/datavis-hackathon/

will become a "session" on the website  for the event. Use the
issues as means for data preparation, for discussing and collaborating
ahead of time for the event amongst your peers, and for planning
on what data, visualizations, code and other fun stuff you will be
working on at the hackathon. We will spend some time in the beginning
of the meeting going through all of the proposed hackathon sessions,
and organizing and potentially collating similar ones, and pairing
them down to a manageable set to work on. Note that if you are
proposing sessions that involve specific data, we expect you to
show up to the meeting with a data brick or with some example to
share/host with others you are working with at the meeting.

3. The meeting place will be: 11/3 and 11/4 (9am - 4:30pm both days)
Parsons New School Orozco Room, Alvin Johnson/J.M. Kaplan Hall 66
West 12th Street, Room A712, New York, NY 10011

Some images of the meeting location are here:
http://www.newschool.edu/leadership/provost/artcollection/new-school-murals/ 
http://www.newschool.edu/ofb/businessoperations/subpage2.aspx?id=51095

4. If you requested travel participation we will email you

separately to confirm your request and to work details out with
you.  Costs will be reimbursed for Flights up to $680 dollars per
participant and hotel costs up to $285/night for 2 nights in NYC
area. We are working with NSF to obtain a limited amount of additional
travel support and we will keep everyone posted on that (that
requested it).

5. Please note that our goal is to create amazing visualizations
of data relevant to the Polar community and to the Polar
CyberInfrastructure community.  So, any data prep that can be done
ahead of time is most valuable. Please use Github to coordinate and
the existing shared repository. We will be collecting the code and
visualizations generated during the workshop and asking participants
to license their code and visualizations under the Apache 2 Software
License (³ALv2²). You can find a copy of the ALv2 here:
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html This will allow the
most reuse of the output of the workshop and the

ability for folks to reproduce the work and to share the visualizations
and data generated. This workshop includes invites (your peers)
that are Cyber Infrastructure, Polar Scientists, Data Visualization
experts, data processing experts, Remote Sensing and GIS experts,
Urban Planning, and a host of other talents that I¹m sure we don¹t
even know about yet.  Please begin collaborating on Github and
working together so that we can make this an awesome event and
generate some real value to the NSF and to the community. The work
you perform here will have a large impact on community.

6. Some prep work is already underway (if you scour the Open Science
Codefest site you will find some) to prepare some datasets of
relevance to the Polar community. We will provide some of this
prepared data to interested parties ahead of the workshop in the
next few weeks in case folks want to start hacking early. We will
tweet under the hash tag:

#nsfpolardatavis

So please feel free to start chatting and getting the buzz going!

Thank you all and apologies for the delay in getting this out. We
expect to have frequent updates coming in the following weeks and
look forward to working with you all to make this an amazing event!

Cheers, 
Chris Mattmann 
(on behalf of the organizing committee)
