Dear NSF DataViz Hackathon for Polar CyberInfrastructure participants,

Hope you are doing well! The workshop is a little less than a week
away at this point and I wanted to remind everyone of the following
important announcements:

1. Please note that the final day to propose sessions is tomorrow,
Wednesday, October 29, 2014. We need to close off the session
proposals on Github at that point in order to print a schedule and
a welcome packet for everyone.

2. Please check back on the website often as it is undergoing some
updates.  In particular, tomorrow, Wednesday will also include a
major update of the agenda to include two talks from visionaries
in the DataViz community to help set the tone on both days, along
with the finalized set of sessions.

3. Please continue to tweet to #nsfpolardatavis and if you haven’t
starred the repo on Github yet, we would appreciate you starring
it to help generate buzz and interest. Also if there are mailing
lists that you can share the website too and point remote people
at the Github, that is also an option for remote participation. I
will be sending announcements later today to CRYOLIST, various Earth
Science Information Partners (ESIP) Federation lists, the NASA Earth
Science Data System WG lists, and some Apache lists to help generate
remote participation interest via Github, but if you can also find
the time to generate buzz that would be great.

4. I can now confirm that Amazon Web Services is donating credits
for the event. It is our intention to have virtual machines available
for the participants to log on to over WiFi to perform computation,
visualization, and to store their data. Amazon and the leadership
of the workshop and NSF are also going to discuss a plan to host
the data results and viz from the workshop.  Code will continue on
in the Github repo.

5. Speaking of code if you have any sample code or data sets to
upload or point at in Github, I’ve created a folder in the repository:

https://github.com/NSF-Polar-Cyberinfrastructure/datavis-hackathon/tree/gh-pages/code/

I will be creating folders there for all of the sessions tomorrow
to upload code and results.

Thank you for listening and please if you have any questions, please
feel free to contact me or any of the organizing committee (who are
listed and clickable on the website).

Thank you!

Cheers, Chris
